# graph-partitioning

## Table of Contents
- [Description](#description)
- [File format](#file-format)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Scripts](#scripts)
- [License](#license)

## Description

This is an application designed for balanced partitioning of planar graphs using various algorithms.
The project considers algorithms "Inertial Flow" and "Bubble algorithm" and/or their modifications.

## File format

Input files with graphs in the format:
```bash
file format: 	n (Vertices number)
		name x y (of Vertex) n1 (Number of outedges) name1 x1 y1 (of out vertex) length1 (edge length) ...
		long double x2		long 			long double x2		 double
```
Output files with description of partitioning parts in the format:
```bash
file format: 	n (Vertices number)
		name x y (of Vertex) w (weight) ...
		long double x2		long
```

In addition to the partition files, each partition directory also contains an `partition_info.json` file with summary statistics about the partition. 
The `partition_info.json` file includes the following metrics:

- partition time (seconds)
- used memory (megabytes)
- number of dual vertices in graph and total weight of the graph
- minimum and maximum weight of the parts in the partition
- average weight of the parts in the partition 
- variance of the weights within the partition
- number of parts in the partition, and the expected ideal number of parts
- total length of boundaries of the parts in the partition, avg / variance
- and information about all parts - lengths of boundary, diameters, and `region_weight / max_weight` ratio

## Usage

### Running the Application

This project uses Gradle as a build tool. 

The program takes the following arguments in the command line:

- `algorithm-name`: The type of the algorithm to use for partitioning. 
Supported algorithms: `IF` (Inertial Flow), `BUP` (Bubble algorithm - parallel version), `BUS` (Bubble algorithm - sequential version).

- `path-to-graph-file`: The path to the input file that describes the graph to be partitioned. (From `graph-partitioning/src/main/resources/`)

- `path-to-buildings-file`: The path to the input file that describes the buildings with their weights. (From `graph-partitioning/src/main/resources/`)

- `max-sum-vertices-weight`: The maximum total weight of the vertices in the partition parts.

- `max-region-radius-meters`: The maximum radius of the region in meters.

- `path-to-result-directory`: The name of the directory where the partition files will be written. (From `graph-partitioning/src/main/output/`) 
The partition files will be named in the format `partition_*.txt`.

- `-p, --param` (optional): the fraction of the weight that must be present in each partition part (used for Inertial Flow algorithm). 
If not provided, the default value is 0.25.

See `--help` for available options.

To run the application, execute the following commands:

```bash
git clone https:/github.com/itisalisas/graph-partitioning.git

cd graph-partitioning

./gradlew build

./gradlew run --args="<algorithm-name> <path-to-graph-file> <path-to-buildings-file> <max-sum-vertices-weight> <max-region-radius-meters> <path-to-result-directory> [param]" 
```

Example:

```bash
./gradlew run --args="IF dataExample/spb/simple/graph_59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_500.txt buildings.txt 10000 200 spb_500"

```

## Scripts

### AdjacencyListFromOSM

This is a script for getting the adjacency list of a graph from OpenStreetMaps. 
It is necessary to select the coordinates of the center and the distance around to determine the area from where information about the graph is extracted. 
The graph format is an adjacency list, see the ["file format"](#file-format) for more details.

Arguments:

- `latitude`: Latitude of the center of the area.
- `longitude`: Longitude of the center of the area.
- Default values: `59.93893094417527`, `30.32268115454809` (Saint Petersburg).
- `distance`: Distance around the center in meters (default = 50).
- `with_rivers`: Flag for including rivers in the graph (default = false).

Generates a file `graph_<latitude>_<longitude>_<distance>.txt` in the `graph-partitioning/src/main/resources/` directory.

### Visualization Scripts

#### Partition Visualizer

To visualize partitioned areas, you can use the `partition_visualizer.py` script. This script generates a map visualization of the partitions.

- `directory_name`: The name of the directory containing the partition files (located in `graph-partitioning/src/main/output/`).
- `output_file.html`: The name of the HTML file where the visualization will be saved.
- The script will save the HTML file in the same directory as the partition files.

Example:

```bash
python3 src/scripts/partition_visualizer.py 59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000 map.html
```

#### Boundary Visualizer

The `bound_visualizer.py` script visualizes the boundaries of partitioned sections.

- `directory_path`: Path to the directory containing the partition boundary files (`bound_*.txt`) generated by the partitioning algorithms (located in `graph-partitioning/src/main/output/`).
- The script will save the HTML file `bound.html` in the same directory as the boundary files.

Example:

```bash
python3 src/scripts/bound_visualizer.py 59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000
```

#### Graph Visualizer

The `graph_visualizer.py` script visualizes a graph from a specified file.

- `file_path`: Path to the input file describing the graph in the specified [file format](#file-format).
- `output_file.html`: Name of the HTML file where the visualization will be saved. 
- The HTML file will be saved in the root directory of the project.

Example:

```bash
python3 src/scripts/graph_visualizer.py dataExample/spb/graph_59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000.txt graph.html
```

### Layers Visualizer

Example:
```bash
python3 src/scripts/layers_visualizer.py -g dataExample/spb/with_rivers/graph_59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_500.txt -o graph.html -p buildings.txt
```

## License

[MIT License](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
