README.md, before:

# graph-partitioning

## Table of Contents
- [Description](#description)
- [File format](#file-format)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Scripts](#scripts)
- [License](#license)


## Description

This is an application designed for balanced partitioning of planar graphs using various algorithms.
The project considers algorithms "Inertial Flow" and "Bubble algorithm" and/or their modifications.

## File format

Input files with graphs in the format:
```bash
file format: 	n (Vertices number)
		name x y (of Vertex) n1 (Number of outedges) name1 x1 y1 (of out vertex) length1 (edge length) ...
		long double x2		long 			long double x2		 double
```
Output files with description of partitioning parts in the format:
```bash
file format: 	n (Vertices number)
		name x y (of Vertex) w (weight) ...
		long double x2		long
```

In addition to the partition files, each partition directory also contains an `info.txt` file with summary statistics about the partition. The info.txt file includes the following metrics:

- MIN: The minimum weight of the partition.
- MAX: The maximum weight of the partition.
- AVERAGE: The average weight of the partition.
- VARIANCE: The variance of the weights within the partition.
- CV: The coefficient of variation of the weights.

## Usage


### Running the Application

This project uses Gradle as a build tool. 

The program takes the following arguments in the command line:

- `algorithm-name`: The type of the algorithm to use for partitioning. Currently, the supported algorithm is "Inertial Flow", which can be specified as `IF`.

- `path-to-file`: The path to the input file that describes the graph to be partitioned. (From graph-partitioning/src/main/resources/)

- `max-sum-vertices-weight`: The maximum total weight of the vertices in the partition parts.

- `output-directory`: The name of the directory where the partition files will be written. (From graph-partitioning/src/main/output/) The partition files will be named in the format `partition_*.txt`.

- `param` (optional): The fraction of the weight that must be present in each partition part. If not provided, the default value is 0.25.

To run the application, execute the following command:

```bash
git clone https:/github.com/itisalisas/graph-partitioning.git

cd graph-partitioning

./gradlew build

./gradlew run --args="<algorithm-name> <path-to-file> <max-sum-vertices-weight> <output-directory> [param]" 
```

Example:

```bash
./gradlew run --args="IF dataExample/spb/simple/graph_59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000.txt 10000 59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000"

```

## Scripts

### AdjacencyListFromOSM

This is an application for getting the adjacency list of a graph from OpenStreetMaps. It is necessary to select the coordinates of the center and the distance around to determine the area from where information about the graph is extracted. 
The graph format is an adjacency list, see the "file format" for more details.

### Visualization Scripts

#### Partition Visualizer

To visualize partitioned areas, you can use the `partition_visualizer.py` script. This script generates a map visualization of the partitions.

- `directory_name`: The name of the directory containing the partition files (located in `graph-partitioning/src/main/output/`).
- `output_file.html`: The name of the HTML file where the visualization will be saved.
- The script will save the HTML file in the same directory as the partition files.

Example:

```bash
python3 src/scripts/partition_visualizer.py 59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000 map.html
```

#### Boundary Visualizer

The `bound_visualizer.py` script visualizes the boundaries of partitioned sections.

- `directory_path`: Path to the directory containing the partition boundary files (`bound_*.txt`) generated by the partitioning algorithms (located in `graph-partitioning/src/main/output/`).
- The script will save the HTML file `bound.html` in the same directory as the boundary files.

Example:

```bash
python3 src/scripts/bound_visualizer.py 59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000
```

#### Graph Visualizer

The `graph_visualizer.py` script visualizes a graph from a specified file.

- `file_path`: Path to the input file describing the graph in the specified [file format](#file-format).
- `output_file.html`: Name of the HTML file where the visualization will be saved. 
- The HTML file will be saved in the root directory of the project.

Example:

```bash
python3 src/scripts/graph_visualizer.py dataExample/spb/graph_59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000.txt graph.html
```

## License

[MIT License](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

feat: add script for visualization by layers

README.md, after:

# graph-partitioning

## Table of Contents
- [Description](#description)
- [File format](#file-format)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Scripts](#scripts)
- [License](#license)


## Description

This is an application designed for balanced partitioning of planar graphs using various algorithms.
The project considers algorithms "Inertial Flow" and "Bubble algorithm" and/or their modifications.

## File format

Input files with graphs in the format:
```bash
file format: 	n (Vertices number)
		name x y (of Vertex) n1 (Number of outedges) name1 x1 y1 (of out vertex) length1 (edge length) ...
		long double x2		long 			long double x2		 double
```
Output files with description of partitioning parts in the format:
```bash
file format: 	n (Vertices number)
		name x y (of Vertex) w (weight) ...
		long double x2		long
```

In addition to the partition files, each partition directory also contains an `info.txt` file with summary statistics about the partition. The info.txt file includes the following metrics:

- MIN: The minimum weight of the partition.
- MAX: The maximum weight of the partition.
- AVERAGE: The average weight of the partition.
- VARIANCE: The variance of the weights within the partition.
- CV: The coefficient of variation of the weights.

## Usage


### Running the Application

This project uses Gradle as a build tool. 

The program takes the following arguments in the command line:

- `algorithm-name`: The type of the algorithm to use for partitioning. Currently, the supported algorithm is "Inertial Flow", which can be specified as `IF`.

- `path-to-graph-file`: The path to the input file that describes the graph to be partitioned. (From graph-partitioning/src/main/resources/)

- `path-to-buildings-file`: The path to the input file that describes the buildings with their weights. (From graph-partitioning/src/main/resources/)

- `max-sum-vertices-weight`: The maximum total weight of the vertices in the partition parts.

- `output-directory`: The name of the directory where the partition files will be written. (From graph-partitioning/src/main/output/) The partition files will be named in the format `partition_*.txt`.

- `param` (optional): The fraction of the weight that must be present in each partition part. If not provided, the default value is 0.25.

To run the application, execute the following command:

```bash
git clone https:/github.com/itisalisas/graph-partitioning.git

cd graph-partitioning

./gradlew build

./gradlew run --args="<algorithm-name> <path-to-graph-file> <path-to-buildings-file> <max-sum-vertices-weight> <output-directory> [param]" 
```

Example:

```bash
./gradlew run --args="IF dataExample/spb/simple/graph_59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_500.txt buildings.txt 10000 59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_500"

```

## Scripts

### AdjacencyListFromOSM

This is an application for getting the adjacency list of a graph from OpenStreetMaps. It is necessary to select the coordinates of the center and the distance around to determine the area from where information about the graph is extracted. 
The graph format is an adjacency list, see the "file format" for more details.

### Visualization Scripts

#### Partition Visualizer

To visualize partitioned areas, you can use the `partition_visualizer.py` script. This script generates a map visualization of the partitions.

- `directory_name`: The name of the directory containing the partition files (located in `graph-partitioning/src/main/output/`).
- `output_file.html`: The name of the HTML file where the visualization will be saved.
- The script will save the HTML file in the same directory as the partition files.

Example:

```bash
python3 src/scripts/partition_visualizer.py 59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000 map.html
```

#### Boundary Visualizer

The `bound_visualizer.py` script visualizes the boundaries of partitioned sections.

- `directory_path`: Path to the directory containing the partition boundary files (`bound_*.txt`) generated by the partitioning algorithms (located in `graph-partitioning/src/main/output/`).
- The script will save the HTML file `bound.html` in the same directory as the boundary files.

Example:

```bash
python3 src/scripts/bound_visualizer.py 59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000
```

#### Graph Visualizer

The `graph_visualizer.py` script visualizes a graph from a specified file.

- `file_path`: Path to the input file describing the graph in the specified [file format](#file-format).
- `output_file.html`: Name of the HTML file where the visualization will be saved. 
- The HTML file will be saved in the root directory of the project.

Example:

```bash
python3 src/scripts/graph_visualizer.py dataExample/spb/graph_59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_1000.txt graph.html
```

### Layers Visualizer

Example:
```bash
python3 src/scripts/layers_visualizer.py -g dataExample/spb/with_rivers/graph_59.93893094417527_30.32268115454809_500.txt -o graph.html -p buildings.txt
```

## License

[MIT License](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
